## Getting Started

Easy-FFmpeg provides two ways to get started based on your preference: using the Python script or the pre-compiled .exe file.
Based on the command below:

```bash
ffmpeg -hwaccel_device 0 -hwaccel cuda -i "input.mkv" -c:v h264_nvenc -preset slow "output.mp4"
```

### Option 1: The Python Way

If you prefer to work directly with the Python script and have more control over the environment, follow these steps:

#### Prerequisites

- Python 3.6 or later installed on your Windows system.
- FFmpeg installed on your system. You can download it from [https://ffmpeg.org/download.html](https://ffmpeg.org/download.html).

#### Installation

1. Clone or download this repository to your local machine.

2. Open a command prompt or terminal window.

3. Navigate to the directory where you've cloned or downloaded the repository.

4. Run the following command to install the required Python packages:

   ```shell
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

5. You are now ready to use Easy-FFmpeg with the Python script.

### Option 2: The Easy Way (Using Pre-compiled .exe)

If you prefer a hassle-free experience and want to run Easy-FFmpeg as a standalone application, you can use the pre-compiled .exe file. Here's how:

#### Prerequisites

- None! No Python or additional packages required.

#### Installation

1. Download the pre-compiled .exe file from the [Releases](https://github.com/hirusha-adi/easy-ffmpeg/releases) section of this repository.

2. Place the downloaded .exe file in a directory that's part of your system's PATH, such as the `System32` folder, or add the directory containing the .exe file to your system's PATH environment variable.

3. You can now run Easy-FFmpeg from anywhere in your command prompt or terminal by simply typing `easy-ffmpeg`.

## Usage

Easy-FFmpeg simplifies multimedia tasks with straightforward commands. Below are some examples:

- Convert a video:

  ```shell
  easy-ffmpeg -i input.mkv -o output.mp4
  ```

- Customize video resolution:

  ```shell
  easy-ffmpeg -i input.mkv -o output.mp4 -r 360p
  ```

- Adjust video bitrate:

  ```shell
  easy-ffmpeg -i input.mkv -o output.mp4 -b 1000
  ```

- Utilize GPU acceleration:

  ```shell
  easy-ffmpeg -i input.mkv -o output.mp4 --gpu
  ```

- Add custom FFmpeg options:

  ```shell
  easy-ffmpeg -i input.mkv -o output.mp4 --other -vf "rotate=90"
  ```

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](https://github.com/hirusha-adi/easy-ffmpeg/blob/main/LICENSE) file for details.

---

Feel free to contribute, report issues, or suggest improvements. Enjoy using Easy-FFmpeg for seamless multimedia processing!

# Note

- based on my [media-file-converter](https://github.com/hirusha-adi/media-file-converter) project
- this readme.md was generated by ChatGPT in `9/8/2023`
